---
title: Holography and SCC
date: 2023-04-15 22:12:33 +/-0800
categories: [gr-qc, Holography]
tags: [gr-qc, hep-th]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---
<p>In a recent paper (arXiv:2304.01292 [hep-th]) I had written as an Essay for the GRF, I had outlined how in holographic quantum gravity the strong cosmic censorship could be preserved, even if violated at classical orders. This was found by speculating that the No Transmission principle, which states that given two disconnected QFTs one should not be able to transmit information between them, used in a holographic setting implies that the bulk duals must <i>also</i> be disconnected. A very straightforward instance of this is that of AdS/CFT, where if the CFTs are independent, the bulk duals must also be independent. Therefore, one would expect any charged and/or rotating black hole in AdS to also preserve SCC, otherwise it could be possible for some mad scientist Bob to go from one AdS to another, which shouldn't be allowed due to the nature of the independent CFTs. Of course, this is a highly speculative thing and it fits the requirements of the Essay, since I used little mathematics and allowed the level of technicality to be that of "ultimate boredom". The final statement of the Essay was a conjecture as follows: </p>
<p><b>Conjecture:</b> <i>In the classical regime, SCC could be violated. But one could conjecture that quantum gravity preserves SCC (at linear or nonlinear orders) by causing a divergence in the stress-tensor, which would backreact to the geometry to cause curvature blow-ups. This would imply that quantum gravity would correct classical violation of SCC to preserve the holographic No Transmission principle.</i></p>
<p>What nonlinear orders? The thing is, the case of a BTZ black hole is complicated, as classical and linear semiclassical investigations proved to show that the inner Cauchy horizon is somewhat stable enough to violate SCC. However, one could consider nonlinear ordered backreactions to the metric as put forward by Tomasevic and Emparan, and these backreactions could cause the stress-tensor to diverge. Semiclassically, one has $T_{VV}\sim \frac{C}{V^{2}}$, where $V$ is the null Kruskal coordinate and $C$ is a parameter depending on the parameter space of the spacetime, and so one would require this to diverge at the inner Cauchy horizon, which in the case of linear backreactions is not so. Therefore, hopefully, nonlinear orders save SCC all the time in such cases. Classically, one does not know whether or not a strict proof could exist; in fact, the Christodoulou version, which is the more used one than the $C^{2}$ formulation states that the maximal development for a spacetime with (locally) square-integrable Christoffel symbols cannot be beyond the inner Cauchy horizon. But in quantum gravity, we predict that these (nonlinear) quantum backreactions to the stress-tensor would save SCC, even if at least to save the No Transmission principle. However, this is merely a speculation with no proper mathematical intuition whatsoever. Hopefully I will get back to this after my differential geometry works, if at all I become interested in physics again. </p>
